MON-1798 - Added content for disabling the local Alertmanager in the Monitoring stack (#36300)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/monitoring-disabling-the-local-alertmanager.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

> [id="disabling_the_local_alertmanager_{context}"]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="monitoring-disabling-the-local-alertmanager_{context}"]
```
This should match the filename exactly: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#module-file-metadata and should use dashes instead of underscores

Author: Fixed.

= Disabling the local Alertmanager

A local Alertmanager that routes alerts from Prometheus instances is enabled by default in the `openshift-monitoring` project of the {product-title} monitoring stack.

If you do not need the local Alertmanager, you can disable it by configuring the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project.

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

> * You have created the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have created the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map.
```
This might be nicer for readability instead of having so many backticks? Just a suggestion though.

Author: I like this suggestion. Change made.

* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

> . Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project:

Reviewer: same suggestion as above re using "config map" instead of "`ConfigMap` object" - they mean the same thing, it's up to you though.

Author: I like this suggestion. Change made.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

. Add `enabled: false` for the `alertmanagerMain` component under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    alertmanagerMain:
      enabled: false
----

> . Save the file to apply the changes. The Alertmanager instance is disabled automatically when you apply the change.

Reviewer 2: I realize this is a boilerplate phrase borrowed from other related topics, but does saving the file really apply the changes? Or must one use an `oc apply` similar to [the one shown here](https://deploy-preview-36300--osdocs.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.html#creating-cluster-monitoring-configmap_configuring-the-monitoring-stack)?

Author: I'm not sure. @fpetkovski or @juzhao would know the answer, I'm sure. The phrase (or something similar) appears throughout the configuration section of the Monitoring docs.

Reviewer 3: cluster-monitoring-operator would watch and apply the changes
1. if the `cluster-monitoring-config` configmap does not exist, we can use `oc applly` to create and apply the changes
2. if the `cluster-monitoring-config` configmap exists, edit and save `cluster-monitoring-config` configmap would apply the changes

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

[id="disabling_the_local_alertmanager_{context}"]
= Disabling the local Alertmanager

A default installation of the {product-title} monitoring stack includes in the `openshift-monitoring` project an Alertmanager instance that routes alerts from Prometheus instances.

You can disable this Alertmanager instance by configuring the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project.

> You might do so in single-node deployments that do not need to deploy a local Alertmanager cluster because alerts are centralized at the core (for example, in the hub cluster) or because running Alertmanager locally would take resources away from user workloads and add management overhead.

Reviewer 2: How might we improve the readability of this phrase?

Author: @rolfedh Which phrase at which line number?

Reviewer 2: @bburt-rh Line 11.

Author: Reworked and simplified the phrasing. Thanks!

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have created the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

. Add `enabled: false` for the `alertmanagerMain` component under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    alertmanagerMain:
      enabled: false
----

. Save the file to apply the changes. The Alertmanager instance is disabled automatically when you apply the change.
+
[WARNING]
====

> When changes are saved to the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object, the pods and other resources in the `openshift-monitoring` project might be redeployed. The running monitoring processes in that project might also be restarted.

Reviewer 2: Can you rephrase this using the active voice? E.g., "Saving changes to the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object might redeploy the pods and other resources in the `openshift-monitoring` project and restart the running monitoring processes in that project."

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * monitoring/configuring-the-monitoring-stack.adoc

[id="disabling_the_local_alertmanager_{context}"]
= Disabling the local Alertmanager

> A default installation of the {product-title} monitoring stack includes in the `openshift-monitoring` project an Alertmanager instance that routes alerts from Prometheus instances.

Reviewer 3: change to below is better
`Alertmanager is a default installation of the {product-title} monitoring stack includes in the `openshift-monitoring` project  that routes alerts from Prometheus instances.`

Author: What about this?  

"A local Alertmanager instance that routes alerts from Prometheus instances is enabled by default in the `openshift-monitoring` project of the (product-title} monitoring stack."

You can disable this Alertmanager instance by configuring the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project.

> You might do so in single-node deployments that do not need to deploy a local Alertmanager cluster.

Reviewer 3: since we can disable Alertmanager in multi-node cluster. change to below is better
`You might do so if you do not need the local Alertmanager cluster.`

Author: Ok. That's simpler and more accurate, then.

Author: Combining the two sentences makes it more direct: 

"If you do not need the local Alertmanager instance, you can disable it by configuring the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project."

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.
* You have created the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object.
* You have installed the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

.Procedure

. Edit the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` object in the `openshift-monitoring` project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-monitoring edit configmap cluster-monitoring-config
----

. Add `enabled: false` for the `alertmanagerMain` component under `data/config.yaml`:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: |
    alertmanagerMain:
      enabled: false
----

. Save the file to apply the changes. The Alertmanager instance is disabled automatically when you apply the change.
+

> [WARNING]

Reviewer 3: if we just disable alertmanager, no pods will be restarted

Author: Will remove the warning
